# Lecture 1

## Seminal Perspectives on Economics

### Milton Friedman

*Methodology of Positive Economics*

[Methodology of Positive Economics](http://digamo.free.fr/hausman82.pdf#page=76)

Value of theory judged on accuracy of **empirical predictions** that the theory makes. Often taken by economists to be a reason not to be concerned with peopel's actual cognitive abilities, and to use rational-choice models regardless of their psychological realism.

Ironically, this can also be used to justify behavioral methodologies (if those methodologies claim to have better predictions).

Need not be incompatible with computational model -- even if the billiard player doesn't think about those processes, we can still investigate those processes as an analytical process.

### Daniel Kahneman

[Maps of Bounded Rationality](https://ideas.repec.org/p/ris/nobelp/2002_004.html)

Bounded rationality. Many judgments are intuitive, produced automatically without conscious deliberation. Intuitive "system 1". Deliberative "system 2" is too **slow and costly** to use for everything. However, intuitions contain biases relative to the conclusions that should result from rational deliberation.

Paper gives example of chess -- too costly to enumerate all the possible moves. Instead, uses intuition and experience.

Documented biass in perceptual judgments provide a useful analogy for biases. eg. **Bernoulli's error**: idea that utility should only depend on final wealth obtained from a series of transactions rather than gains or losses along the way to the final state.

Friedman would agree that many decisions are based on intuition rather than calculation: eg. the billiard player. Questions are if intuitive judgments are made largely as if optimizing (again, focus on predictive outcomes). Kahneman says no.

Question now is to investigate if examples of bias in particular situations lead to a more **general perspective on what behavior to expect**

### Daniel McFadden

[Rationality for Economics](http://www.jstor.org/stable/41623954?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)

